# MacOSXDev
Get your Mac OS X Development Environment up and running.

*Sources:*

[Mac multiple php versions](https://getgrav.org/blog/macos-sierra-apache-multiple-php-versions)

[Mac Apache-MySQL-vhost-apc](https://getgrav.org/blog/macos-sierra-apache-mysql-vhost-apc)

---
This is pretty much a summarized version of the steps set out in the above URLs. This works in OS X Sierra and OS X High Sierra.

### Step 1. Install XCode Command Line Tools

<pre><code>$ xcode-select --install
</code></pre>

### Step 2. Install Homebrew

<pre><code>$ ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
$ brew doctor
</code></pre>

### Step 3. Install Apache, PHP 7.4, Xdebug, git, JDK, and composer

<pre><code>$ brew install httpd
$ brew install php
$ pecl uninstall -r xdebug && install xdebug
$ brew install git
$ brew install composer
$ brew cask install java

$ sudo brew services start httpd
$ sudo brew services start php
</code></pre>

### Step 4. Edit and copy Apache configuration files:

Edit the configuration files and replace [[username]]() with your Mac OS X username. Also, change [[domain]()].[[ext]()] 
with the domain and extension you wish to use.

After you edit the configuration files, copy them to their corresponding folders:
<pre><code>$ cp httpd.conf /usr/local/etc/httpd/httpd.conf
$ cp httpd-vhosts.conf /usr/local/etc/httpd/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf
$ sudo cp hosts /etc/hosts
</code></pre>

### Step 5. Create the Sites and Apache logs folders

<pre><code>$ sudo mkdir ~/Sites
$ sudo mkdir ~/Sites/logs
</code></pre>

### Step 6. Download & Install MySQL Community Server for Mac OS X

Get the latest version [here](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/). I tried installing MySQL with Homebrew but,
apparently, the current tap version is incompatible with php 7.2.7 (update 1/11/2020 - still haven't upgraded MySQL).
I did not try installing MariaDB, although I agree with the above-referenced guides that updating via Homebrew is recommended.

#### 6.1. Install MySQL.

*__IMPORTANT:__ COPY AND PASTE THE GENERATED ROOT PASSWORD TO CHANGE IT LATER*

#### 6.2. Open MySQL preferences and check "Automatically Start MySQL Server in Startup"

#### 6.3. Reboot

#### 6.4. Open Terminal

#### 6.5. Open the MySQL shell

<pre><code>$ mysql -u root -p
</code></pre>

Use the password generated by the MySQL install in Step 6.1.

#### 6.6. Change the root password

Change MyNewPass for your new, easier to remember, password.

<pre><code>mysql> ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'MyNewPass';
</code></pre>

